README.md, before:

# IPFSS / IPFS-Secure

### The cloud storage for bio hackers.

A unique IPFS frontend that you can use to push your files through. Encrypt all traffic with a temporary symmetric key and GPG. Ensure that you can upload private data to IPFS, and only you can receive and view on another machine. The HTTPS of IPFS.

**Recommended to use keycard, Apex, or Keycard for Multi Factor Authentication (MFA), encrypting and decrypting data. Using IPFS in general.**

This way your keycard and passphrase is used to generate a determinate, temporary, symmetric key that you can encrypt a file with, the key is destroyed but you P71 implant (Apex / FlexSexure) can be used to generate the same key at decryption time. Given the same passhrase.

SecureIPFS is an application and library set that integrates the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) with robust RSA or ECC encryption in Go, providing a secure method to store and retrieve files. It encrypts files before uploading to IPFS and decrypts them using a corresponding key. Generated aand destroyed when required. 

## For developers

1. **IPFS Kubo Implementation.**
   - Complete

2. **Keycard Implementation.**
   - Complete
3. **Pinning Implementation.**
   - In order to prevent the block garbage collection, files have to be pinned, preferrably to a machine you trust, or an external pinning service like filebase.
   - I am currently working on this process, although currently what has been found is that accounts have to be set up through web2.
   - Following successful location of an API with full web3 integration, I will adapt the program to utilize the keycard for account generation, payload signing, etc for data hosting. 


## From Dangerous Things with love. 

The Apex Flex and FlexSecure allow us mortal humans to perform cryptographic functions in vivo (under the skin) this fact paired with the above cryptographic MFA, provides the user a secure way to keep their data safe. 

![image](https://github.com/SATUNIX/IPFSS_IPFS-Secure/assets/111553838/c28a0a23-1c19-4e04-b621-ef7b76d92f77)

You may be asking **"but satunix why is this so special?" "These implants can do PGP and OTP!!!"** Well, they sure can, but thats it, good luck loading several applets onto your keycard for each purpose, then trying to navigate and use all of the different block positions keys, algorithims.... and whatever tf. Me personally, I kave a FlexSecure loaded with Keycard. Thus, Keycard must be used for this process. This allows even the noobiest of users ease of control and access. 
*A load and swipe process.*

>"The ability to carry your OTP authenticator, PGP, and other cryptographic keys, and perform cryptographic functions all in vivo (generate OTP codes, encrypt & decrypt data, etc.) without ever revealing private keys to the NFC interface you are interacting with is a huge step forward for personal digital identity and data security."
   
## Key Features

- **Symmetric Encryption**: Utilize RSA encryption to secure your files. Files are encrypted with a generated key, given the unique data from your P71 chip and a passphrase.
- **Symmetric Encryption 2**: Utilize a Apex or FlexSecure implant with keycard to use Multi Factor Symmetric encryption on your files, supply a passphrase, scan your card, files secured.
- **Asymmetric Encryption**: Encrypt your files however you want using GPG, I will later be expanding the encryption process into it's own link API, allowing greater flexibility on how your files are encrypted.
- **Decentralized Storage**: Leverage IPFS for secure, encrypted, decentralized, and immutable file storage.
- **Go Implementation**: Built with Go, taking advantage of its powerful concurrency features and efficient data handling.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed on your system:

- Go programming language
- IPFS daemon running locally or accessible remotely
- Relevant Go libraries for IPFS and encryption

## Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ ETC ETC ETC
   cd IPFSS_IPFS-Secure/
   ```

2. **Build the Application**:
   ```bash
   go build
   ```
3. Use this instead for IPFS add and get for tunneled transfer.


## Usage

- **Run the program, all items in the menu:**

  ```bash
  ./IPFSS_IPFS-Secure 
  ```

## Contributing

Contributions to SecureIPFS are welcome! Please read our upcoming contributing guidelines for details on how to submit pull requests.
For now just create a fork and then create a pull request with your changes.
## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- IPFS Team for the IPFS protocol
- Go community for the extensive libraries and support
- All contributors who participate in this project

## Roadmap Plan of Development 

- Completion of initial encryption and sys arg functions / data flow to ipfs get and ipfs add.
- Usage of JAVA Keycard for signing / backing up private public keys.  

## Function Layout
Key Management Functions

generate_keypair(passphrase): Generates a new RSA key pair (public and private keys) secured by the given passphrase. Stores the key pair securely.
load_private_key(passphrase): Loads the private key from storage, using the passphrase to decrypt it.
get_public_key(): Retrieves the public key from the stored key pair.
File Encryption and Uploading

encrypt_and_sign_file(file_path, private_key): Encrypts the file located at file_path using the private key. Signs the encrypted data to ensure authenticity. Returns the encrypted data.
upload_to_ipfs(encrypted_data): Uploads the encrypted data to IPFS and returns the IPFS hash (CID - Content Identifier) for the uploaded file.
File Downloading and Decryption

download_from_ipfs(ipfs_hash): Downloads the file from IPFS using the given IPFS hash. Returns the downloaded encrypted data.
decrypt_file(encrypted_data, private_key): Decrypts the encrypted data using the private key. Returns the decrypted file content.
Utility Functions

save_file(file_content, file_path): Saves the decrypted file content to the specified path.
read_file(file_path): Reads the content of the file at the specified path.
User Interface / Interaction Functions

These functions would handle user inputs and actions from the GUI, triggering the appropriate backend functions based on user interaction (e.g., button clicks, form submissions).
Example Workflow
Key Generation:

The user generates a new RSA key pair upon first use or loads an existing one.
Upload Workflow:

User selects a file to upload.
The file is encrypted and signed using the user's private key.
The encrypted file is uploaded to IPFS, and the IPFS hash is returned.
Download Workflow:

User inputs an IPFS hash to download the corresponding file.
The encrypted file is downloaded from IPFS.
The user enters the passphrase to unlock the private key.
The downloaded file is decrypted using the private key and saved locally.
Security and User Experience Considerations
Key Security: Store the key pair securely, ideally using an established library for key management.
Passphrase Handling: Ensure the passphrase is not stored insecurely or transmitted in plain text.
Error Handling: Implement robust error handling, especially for cryptographic operations and IPFS interactions.
User Feedback: Provide clear feedback to the user, especially in cases of errors or successful operations.
Conclusion
This function layout provides a structured approach to building your application, focusing on key areas like key management, file encryption/decryption, and interaction with IPFS. It is essential to utilize established cryptographic libraries and follow best practices in security and user interface design to ensure the application is both secure and user-friendly.

Commit message:

Functionality update
Improve functionality. You can now import and decrypt previous files using the log. 
You can also copy the log to a smartphone using the QR generator. This will transfer it as text upto a certain size. (Does not save as file it is simply text data)

README.md, after:

# IPFSS / SecureIPFS

A unique IPFS frontend that you can use to push your files through. Encrypt all traffic with a Asymmetric RSA keypair and GPG. Ensure that you can upload private data to IPFS, and only you can receive and view on another machine. The HTTPS of IPFS.

**Recommended to use keycard, Apex, or Keycard for Multi Factor Authentication (MFA), encrypting and decrypting data. Using IPFS in general.**


SecureIPFS is an application and library set that integrates the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) with robust RSA encryption in Go, providing a secure method to store and retrieve files. It encrypts files before uploading to IPFS and decrypts them using a corresponding key pair.

## For developers

1. **IPFS Kubo Implementation.**
   - I can do this but some help would be appreciated.
   - Just need to add IPFS Kubo implementation - this is just a front end for IPFS Get and IPFS Add.

2. **Keycard Implementation.**
   - This is stage two and if you are a developer wanting to help, make a fork, see /Docs/* and add your software, finish / upload with a pull request.
   - Ive therorised a way to securely use the keycard for encrypting and decrypting data. Since a EDCSA Signature is unique to the signers private key and the data they are signing. This is all we need.
   - You just reverse the process, the file is not being signed, the users unique passphrase is. This way the unique EDCSA signature is unique to the user and the application,
   - This way an attacker cannot decrypt the IPFS data without the keycard, and they cant just scan the keycard, the need to know the passphrase used for that file, and swipe or otherwise steal the keycard.
   - This is a way of using in vivo crypto coprocessors for secure MFA and file privacy / security.


## From Dangerous Things with love. 

The Apex Flex and FlexSecure allow us mortal humans to perform cryptographic functions in vivo (under the skin) this fact paired with the above cryptographic MFA, provides the user a secure way to keep their data safe. 

![image](https://github.com/SATUNIX/IPFSS_IPFS-Secure/assets/111553838/c28a0a23-1c19-4e04-b621-ef7b76d92f77)

You may be asking **"but satunix why is this so special?" "These implants can do PGP and OTP!!!"** Well, they sure can, but thats it, good luck loading several applets onto your keycard for each purpose, then trying to navigate and use all of the different block positions keys, algorithims.... and whatever tf. Me personally, I kave a FlexSecure loaded with Keycard. Thus, Keycard must be used for this process. This allows even the noobiest of users ease of control and access. 
*A load and swipe process.*

>"The ability to carry your OTP authenticator, PGP, and other cryptographic keys, and perform cryptographic functions all in vivo (generate OTP codes, encrypt & decrypt data, etc.) without ever revealing private keys to the NFC interface you are interacting with is a huge step forward for personal digital identity and data security."
   
## Key Features

- **Asymmetric Encryption**: Utilize RSA encryption to secure your files. Files are encrypted with a public key and can only be decrypted with the corresponding passphrase protected private key.
- **Symmetric Encryption**: Utilize a Apex or FlexSecure implant with keycard to use Multi Factor Symmetric encryption on your files, supply a passphrase, scan your card, files secured. 
- **Decentralized Storage**: Leverage IPFS for secure, encrypted, decentralized, and immutable file storage.
- **Go Implementation**: Built with Go, taking advantage of its powerful concurrency features and efficient data handling.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed on your system:

- Go programming language
- IPFS daemon running locally or accessible remotely
- Relevant Go libraries for IPFS and encryption

## Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/SecureIPFS.git
   cd SecureIPFS
   ```

2. **Build the Application**:
   ```bash
   go build
   ```
3. Use this instead for IPFS add and get for tunneled transfer.


## Usage

- **Encrypting and Uploading a File**:
  Encrypt your files with a public key and upload them to IPFS, receiving an IPFS hash in return.
  ```bash
  ./SecureIPFS upload --file path/to/file --pubkey path/to/pubkey
  ```

- **Downloading and Decrypting a File**:
  Download and decrypt files from IPFS using your private key.
  ```bash
  ./SecureIPFS download --hash "ipfs_hash" --privkey path/to/privkey --passphrase "your_passphrase"
  ```

## Contributing

Contributions to SecureIPFS are welcome! Please read our upcoming contributing guidelines for details on how to submit pull requests.
For now just create a fork and then create a pull request with your changes.
## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- IPFS Team for the IPFS protocol
- Go community for the extensive libraries and support
- All contributors who participate in this project

## Roadmap Plan of Development 

- Completion of initial encryption and sys arg functions / data flow to ipfs get and ipfs add.
- Usage of JAVA Keycard for signing / backing up private public keys.  

## Function Layout
Key Management Functions

generate_keypair(passphrase): Generates a new RSA key pair (public and private keys) secured by the given passphrase. Stores the key pair securely.
load_private_key(passphrase): Loads the private key from storage, using the passphrase to decrypt it.
get_public_key(): Retrieves the public key from the stored key pair.
File Encryption and Uploading

encrypt_and_sign_file(file_path, private_key): Encrypts the file located at file_path using the private key. Signs the encrypted data to ensure authenticity. Returns the encrypted data.
upload_to_ipfs(encrypted_data): Uploads the encrypted data to IPFS and returns the IPFS hash (CID - Content Identifier) for the uploaded file.
File Downloading and Decryption

download_from_ipfs(ipfs_hash): Downloads the file from IPFS using the given IPFS hash. Returns the downloaded encrypted data.
decrypt_file(encrypted_data, private_key): Decrypts the encrypted data using the private key. Returns the decrypted file content.
Utility Functions

save_file(file_content, file_path): Saves the decrypted file content to the specified path.
read_file(file_path): Reads the content of the file at the specified path.
User Interface / Interaction Functions

These functions would handle user inputs and actions from the GUI, triggering the appropriate backend functions based on user interaction (e.g., button clicks, form submissions).
Example Workflow
Key Generation:

The user generates a new RSA key pair upon first use or loads an existing one.
Upload Workflow:

User selects a file to upload.
The file is encrypted and signed using the user's private key.
The encrypted file is uploaded to IPFS, and the IPFS hash is returned.
Download Workflow:

User inputs an IPFS hash to download the corresponding file.
The encrypted file is downloaded from IPFS.
The user enters the passphrase to unlock the private key.
The downloaded file is decrypted using the private key and saved locally.
Security and User Experience Considerations
Key Security: Store the key pair securely, ideally using an established library for key management.
Passphrase Handling: Ensure the passphrase is not stored insecurely or transmitted in plain text.
Error Handling: Implement robust error handling, especially for cryptographic operations and IPFS interactions.
User Feedback: Provide clear feedback to the user, especially in cases of errors or successful operations.
Conclusion
This function layout provides a structured approach to building your application, focusing on key areas like key management, file encryption/decryption, and interaction with IPFS. It is essential to utilize established cryptographic libraries and follow best practices in security and user interface design to ensure the application is both secure and user-friendly.
